In Case of Crashes
Typically these have to do with driver incompatibilities or issues with the Steam
client.
? Make sure Steam is Really, Truly Running – For reasons unknown to
anyone, sometimes Steam doesn’t report itself as running, and you’ll get
an error message letting you know. Fully exit Steam and restart if this
happens.
? Make sure Steam is Done Updating – If you start a game at just the wrong
moment, you can catch it in the midst of a Steam update. It’ll try to start
and hang. The only way out of this is to terminate and start over.
? Disable the Steam Overlay – This is the most common source of startup
crashes as Steam modifies game code at runtime in order to work, but it
isn’t compatible with all video cards.
? Update Your Video Drivers – An old driver can wreak havoc.
? Make Sure It’s Using The Right Card – Many new computers come with a
low-power GPU in addition to a fast dedicated graphics card by NVIdia or
AMD. You may have to use your graphics card’s software to specify that
it should run AV on the faster card rather than the integrated one.
? Check the Min Specs – The current min specs are posted on the Steam
store page; it’s possible that the card you are using is simply too old to run
the game.
? Uninstall and Reinstall – Steam appears to corrupt downloads at an
unusual rate. Sometimes this is the only way around it.
? In Linux – There is a crash experienced by some users initializing the audio
device. For some users switching to Pulseaudio resolved the issue.
? Windows 10 + NVidia – If you are hanging at startup, many users have
reported that going into the NVidia control panel and enabling FXAA will
solve the issue.
? AMD Triplebuffering – AMD has an option to enable triblebuffering for
OpenGL, either globally or individually, which works similarly to VSync and
helps prevent tearing. For AV this will (or can) cause a crash.
Unfortunately the individual setting doesn’t always work and you may
need to disable triblebuffering globally.
? Crashes on Save/Load of Save game – Save games are Rijndael
encrypted to keep speedrunners somewhat honest, but some windows
machines disable this. To enable, you need to run “regedit” and search
for
“HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\FipsAlgorithmPolicy”
and set enable to 0. (This is fixed in newer versions of AV, but, incidentally,
disabling FIPS is actually a good thing in most cases, just google it).